Today, we're going to talk about how
native speakers connect words in English.
This is called connected speech.
Often, sounds are reduced or changed when
words are spoken together.
We'll also learn about contractions.
Let's get started.
Elision.
Sometimes sounds are dropped when we
speak quickly.
Examples.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
Recuerda que tienes que escuchar la
frase, la palabra clave, pausar el video
y repetir.
¿Listo?
Y después sigues para que escuches otras
dos veces la palabra clave.
I'm gonna go to the doctor's tomorrow.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna.
He shoulda gone to the store.
He shoulda, he shoulda, he shoulda.
I woulda gone if I had known.
I woulda, I woulda, I woulda.
You coulda told me earlier.
You coulda, you coulda, you coulda.
She musta missed the train.
She musta, she musta, she musta.
We mighta been late.
We mighta, we mighta, we mighta.
Give me a call when you arrive.
Gimme, gimme, gimme, let me know if you
need anything.
Lemmy, lemmy, lemmy.
Wanna go to the movies?
Wanna, wanna, wanna.
I gotta finish this today.
Gotta, gotta, gotta.
It's kinda funny how that happened.
Kinda, kinda, kinda.
I ran out of milk.
Outta, outta, outta.
I need a cup of tea.
Cuppa, cuppa, cuppa.
That's a lot of work.
Lotta, lotta, lotta.
Whatcha doing this weekend?
Watcha, watcha, watcha.
I don't know what to do.
Don't know, don't know, don't know.
Assimilation.
When two sounds are next to each other,
one may change to sound more like the other.
Examples.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
You have to gano because it's late.
You have to go, you have to go, you have
to go, have to pick up the groceries.
Have to, have to, have to.
Wanna eat out tonight?
Wanna, wanna, wanna.
Cuja, help me with this?
Cuja, cuja, cuja, would you come with me?
Wooja, wooja, wooja, did ya see that movie?
Did ya, did ya, did ya, this shop has
great deals.
This shop, this shop, this shop.
That boy is very tall.
That boy, that boy, that boy, in Paris
right now.
In Paris, in Paris, I'm Paris, last year
was amazing.
Last year, last year, last year, goo girl
did well.
Goo girl, goo girl, goo girl.
Green bag is on the table.
Green bag, green bag, green bag.
Tin cards are missing.
Tongue cards, tongue cards, tongue cards.
Linking.
Sounds from one word can connect with the
next word.
Examples.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
Let's go on a trip this weekend.
Go on a trip, go on a trip, go on a trip.
Let's go on a trip next month.
Go on, go on, go on, do it yourself.
Do it, do it, do it.
How are you doing?
How are, how are, how are, see it now.
See it, see it, see it, get up and get moving.
Get up, get up, get up, turn off the lights.
Turn off, turn off, turn off, put it over there.
Put it, put it, put it, bring it to the meeting.
Bring it, bring it, bring it.
Call up your friend.
Call up, call up, call up.
Find out what happened.
Find out, find out, find out.
Get out of the car.
Get out, get out, get out.
Hold on for a second.
Hold on, hold on, hold on.
Turn it off, please.
Turn it, turn it, turn it.
Reduction.
Some sounds become weaker or change to
the schwa vowel, which sounds like, uh, examples.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
Recuerda que tienes que escuchar la
frase, la palabra clave, pausar el video
y repetir.
¿Listo?
Y después sigues para que escuches otras
dos veces la palabra clave.
Can you help me with this problem?
Can you help me?
Can you come here?
Can you?
They need help?
D 'ya.
What do you think about this?
What do you?
I'm going to the store.
I'm, I'm, I'm.
He's always late.
He's, he's, he's.
She's coming over later.
She's, she's, she's.
They're not here yet.
They're, they're, they're.
We're going on vacation.
We're, we're, we're.
You're the best.
You're, you're, you're.
It's going to rain.
It's, it's, it's.
There's a problem with the car.
There's, there's, there's.
Where's the nearest station?
Where's, where's, where's who's coming to
the party?
Who's, who's, who's.
Contractions.
Contractions occur when we combine two
words to make a shorter form.
Examples.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
I'm going to the store now.
I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm
going to the store.
I'm, I'm, I'm.
You're invited to the party.
You're, you're, you're.
He's already finished.
He's, he's, he's.
She's leaving soon.
She's, she's, she's.
It's a beautiful day.
It's, it's, it's.
We're having a great time.
We're, we're, we're.
They're going to be late.
There, there, there.
I'll see you later.
I'll, I'll, I'll.
You'll, you'll do great.
You'll, you'll, you'll.
He'll join us later.
He'll, he'll, he'll.
She'll be here soon.
She'll, she'll, she'll.
It'll be fun.
It'll, it'll, it'll.
We'll meet at noon.
We'll, we'll, we'll.
They'll arrive tomorrow.
They'll, they'll, they'll.
I've finished my homework.
I've, I've, I've.
You've got to see this.
You've, you've, you've.
He's finished his work.
He's, he's, he's.
She's already left.
She's, she's, she's.
It's worked well for years.
It's, it's, it's.
We've been waiting.
We've, we've, we've.
They've got the tickets.
They've, they've, they've.
I'd love to go.
I'd, I'd, I'd.
You'd better hurry.
You'd, you'd, you'd.
He'd like some coffee.
He'd, he'd, he'd.
She'd appreciate your help.
She'd, she'd, she'd.
It'd be nice to meet her.
It'd, it'd, it'd, it'd.
We'd be happy to help.
We'd, we'd, we'd.
They'd prefer a different time.
They'd, they'd, they'd.
I'd finished by then.
I'd, I'd, I'd.
You'd have loved the show.
You'd, you'd, you'd.
He'd been waiting for hours.
He'd, he'd, he'd.
She'd gone home early.
She'd, she'd, she'd.
It'd been a long day.
It'd, it'd, it'd, we'd seen that movie before.
We'd, we'd, we'd, they'd already left.
They'd, they'd, they'd.
We'd, we'd, they'd.
We'd, we'd, we'd, we'd.